README.md, before:

# Open Food Facts Auth

This Project provides authentication services for Open Food Facts using Keycloak, backed by a PostgreSQL database.

The primary responsibility of this service is to support user authentication and high-level authorization. Not all attributes we store about a user will be stored in Keycloak. For example, Product Opener user preferences, like whether to show barcodes, will still be stored in Product Opener.

Ultimately all user and re-user authentication should take place via Keycloak. Other Open Food Facts projects should not be prompting users for their username and password, but instead redirecting to Keycloak. This will allow us to support other authentication methods like Passkeys and social login in the future. However, username and password authentication APIs are currently still provided while all services transition.

# Components of the Project

Different aspects of the Keycloak deployment are managed by the following components of this project:

## [Customizations](src/README.md)

This is where customizations to the Keycloak server behavior are maintained. Code is written in Java. This code manages the legacy password hashing that allowed us to migrate users without them having to change their passwords and also generates Redis events for key user activities like initial registration and deletion.

## [Configuration](runtime-scripts/README.md)

These scripts apply the specific Open Food Facts configuration parameters to the Keycloak instance. This includes setting up clients for Product Opener, user attribute definitions and supported locales.

## [Themes](theme/README.md)

This is where the Keycloak UI is customized to meet Open Food Facts requirements. Most of this is done using CSS but in some cases the Keycloak templates have been overridden.

## [Localization](src/messages/README.md)

The localization message files are shared between the Java source and Themes and linked through to Crowdin.

## [Tests](tests/README.md)

We use Playwright to drive the Keycloak user interface and perform end to end testing of the Keycloak deployment.

# Local Development

First, run `make dev` to load dependencies and build the container image. Them use `make up` to start the services.

To see how a user logs in you can navigate to: http://auth.openfoodfacts.localhost:5600/realms/open-products-facts/account/#/

For more detailed debug information you can also use the test client with the following URL:

http://auth.openfoodfacts.localhost:5604/?clientId=test-client&clientSecret=test-secret123&lang=en&keycloak=http%3A%2F%2Fauth.openfoodfacts.localhost%3A5600%2Frealms%2Fopen-products-facts

If you create a new user account you will need to validate the email address used. The validation email can be found in SMTP4Dev here: http://localhost:5605/

# Environment

The settings in `.env` are designed to support the default local setup. Use `.envrc` to override settings locally. Descriptions of each field are included in the `.env` file.

# Applying Keycloak Updates

The Keycloak version to be used is specified in the `.env` file. However, in addition to updating this there are a number of other steps that need to be completed:

## Refresh Themes

We keep a copy of the Keycloak themes in Git so that we can see what has changed between versions. Run `make refresh_themes` to refresh this copy (stored in the `theme` folder).

`make refresh_themes` also calls `make update-keycloak_version` which refreshes the version numbers in the `pom.xml` file.

Note: This requires a JRE in `$PATH`.

## Refresh Overridden Templates

We have overridden a small number of standard Keycloak templates where needed. Make sure you refresh these templates from the original Keycloak ones if they have changed and re-apply our overrides if they are still needed. All templates containing overrides will contain a comment like:

```html
<!-- OFF specific changes: ...
```

Please try and write a Playwright test to cover any specific overrides, so we know when it is safe to remove them.

## Build

Run `make build` to update the container images.

## Test

Make sure you re-run the end to end tests with `make test` after a Keycloak upgrade. Pay particular attention to the screen snapshots is it is often necessary to update the custom CSS for the OFF theme after a Keycloak upgrade.

# Roadmap

## Mobile

We will need to update the mobile application to launch the keycloak login and account pages before we can deprecate the password grant type option.

## Client Credentials for APIs

API consumers will need to be set up as Clients in Keycloak. Need to figure out how the sign-up process will work.

## Support Alternative Login

Once all apps are going through Keycloak for authentication we can start to support things like Social Login and Passkeys.

Commit message:

fix: Update GitHub build actions to fix build issues (#189)
* Moved originals into specific folder

Signed-off-by: John Gomersall <thegoms@gmail.com>

* Move to theme folder to match jar

Signed-off-by: John Gomersall <thegoms@gmail.com>

* Only extract specific files we use to reduce diffs

Signed-off-by: John Gomersall <thegoms@gmail.com>

* Fix makefile

Signed-off-by: John Gomersall <thegoms@gmail.com>

* Remove multiple platform options

Signed-off-by: John Gomersall <thegoms@gmail.com>

* Don't need to do a docker compose build in GitHub action

Signed-off-by: John Gomersall <thegoms@gmail.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: John Gomersall <thegoms@gmail.com>

README.md, after:

# Open Food Facts Auth

This Project provides authentication services for Open Food Facts using Keycloak, backed by a PostgreSQL database.

The primary responsibility of this service is to support user authentication and high-level authorization. Not all attributes we store about a user will be stored in Keycloak. For example, Product Opener user preferences, like whether to show barcodes, will still be stored in Product Opener.

Ultimately all user and re-user authentication should take place via Keycloak. Other Open Food Facts projects should not be prompting users for their username and password, but instead redirecting to Keycloak. This will allow us to support other authentication methods like Passkeys and social login in the future. However, username and password authentication APIs are currently still provided while all services transition.

# Components of the Project

Different aspects of the Keycloak deployment are managed by the following components of this project:

## [Customizations](src/README.md)

This is where customizations to the Keycloak server behavior are maintained. Code is written in Java. This code manages the legacy password hashing that allowed us to migrate users without them having to change their passwords and also generates Redis events for key user activities like initial registration and deletion.

## [Configuration](runtime-scripts/README.md)

These scripts apply the specific Open Food Facts configuration parameters to the Keycloak instance. This includes setting up clients for Product Opener, user attribute definitions and supported locales.

## [Themes](theme/README.md)

This is where the Keycloak UI is customized to meet Open Food Facts requirements. Most of this is done using CSS but in some cases the Keycloak templates have been overridden.

## [Localization](src/messages/README.md)

The localization message files are shared between the Java source and Themes and linked through to Crowdin.

## [Tests](tests/README.md)

We use Playwright to drive the Keycloak user interface and perform end to end testing of the Keycloak deployment.

# Local Development

First, run `make dev` to load dependencies and build the container image. Them use `make up` to start the services.

To see how a user logs in you can navigate to: http://auth.openfoodfacts.localhost:5600/realms/open-products-facts/account/#/

For more detailed debug information you can also use the test client with the following URL:

http://auth.openfoodfacts.localhost:5604/?clientId=test-client&clientSecret=test-secret123&lang=en&keycloak=http%3A%2F%2Fauth.openfoodfacts.localhost%3A5600%2Frealms%2Fopen-products-facts

If you create a new user account you will need to validate the email address used. The validation email can be found in SMTP4Dev here: http://localhost:5605/

# Environment

The settings in `.env` are designed to support the default local setup. Use `.envrc` to override settings locally. Descriptions of each field are included in the `.env` file.

# Applying Keycloak Updates

The Keycloak version to be used is specified in the `.env` file. However, in addition to updating this there are a number of other steps that need to be completed:

## Refresh Themes

We keep a copy of the Keycloak themes in Git so that we can see what has changed between versions. Run `make refresh_themes` to refresh this copy (stored in the `theme` folder).

`make refresh_themes` also calls `make update-keycloak_version` which refreshes the version numbers in the `pom.xml` file.

Note: This requires a JRE in `$PATH`.

## Refresh Overridden Templates

We have overridden a small number of standard Keycloak templates where needed. Make sure you refresh these templates from the original Keycloak ones if they have changed and re-apply our overrides if they are still needed. All templates containing overrides will contain a comment like:

```html
<!-- OFF specific changes: ...
```

If you need to override a new template make sure it is listed in the `refresh_themes` target of the `Makefile` so that we can track further changes made by Keycloak to that template. Please try and write a Playwright test to cover any specific overrides, so we know when it is safe to remove them.

## Build

Run `make build` to update the container images.

## Test

Make sure you re-run the end to end tests with `make test` after a Keycloak upgrade. Pay particular attention to the screen snapshots is it is often necessary to update the custom CSS for the OFF theme after a Keycloak upgrade.

# Roadmap

## Mobile

We will need to update the mobile application to launch the keycloak login and account pages before we can deprecate the password grant type option.

## Client Credentials for APIs

API consumers will need to be set up as Clients in Keycloak. Need to figure out how the sign-up process will work.

## Support Alternative Login

Once all apps are going through Keycloak for authentication we can start to support things like Social Login and Passkeys.
